---
layout: page
title: About me
permalink: /about/
---

Hi. My name is Zach, and I have a problem. I'm addicted to tech and new things. I think my interest started in 5th grade when my friend and I discovered (quite by accident) that we could send messages from one machine to another, as long as we knew the secret "phone number" for the target machine. These "phone numbers" were in a strange format, 192.168.001.023 for his and I think mine was 192.168.001.004. We had no idea how it worked or how they were derived, but we were hooked. We went straight to the teacher to show off our discovery. We were promptly banned from the school's computers and harshly scolded for "trying to tear up [sic] the new computers." Awesome. If they were so concerned with protecting the arcane secrets of these machines, there must be something REALLY COOL in there...

Fast forward to age 16 when I read that the ads on my <blink>TOTALLY AWESOME</blink> [Geocities](http://www.wonder-tonic.com/geocitiesizer/content.php?theme=3&music=1&url=http://{{ site.host }}{{ site.baseurl }}{{ page.url }}) page were controlled by something called "Javascript." This was not an incantation I had added to my repertoire, so I began performing the ancient rituals of connecting to shady newsgroups, pulling headers, and viewing source. This new magick was as complex as it was formidable. "Can't you just give me a list of tags?!?" I remember yelling in frustration. A few weeks later I was indulging my grandmother in her hobby of "yard sailing." I caught a glance of a table full of books and headed over to investigate. Then I found it; my Rosetta Stone key to this mythos was "[Sam's Teach Yourself Javascript in 24 Hours](http://www.amazon.com/JavaScript-Hours-Teach-Yourself-Edition/dp/0672336081)," but I didn't know that yet. I scoffed at the title and cracked the tome to see what drivel they were spouting, after all, I had spent considerably more that 24 hours "teaching myself javascript" and felt none the wiser for it. I almost fell over when the first revelation crash landed into my skull: "Javascript is not HTML. It gets shoehorned in just before the web browser draws everything on screen." Looking back it's fairly obvious, but at the time, it felt like a hard write directly to my brain as the incantations and machinations clicked into place as a harmonious whole. Thus began my journey.

After September 11, 2001, I felt the need to heed the call of a different sort and joined the United States Marine Corps as an Aviation Electronics Technician. While enlisted, I became a fan of the Eisenhower school of leadership and began to really develop my leadership skills in earnest. I’ve since lead various project teams and a business to business sales team, which at one point was ranked 16th nationally.

In 2012, I made contact with a group of like-minded hackers/makers/doers/crafters/builders and we founded [KnoxMakers.org](http://www.knoxmakers.org), East Tennessee's first Hackerspace. I served as a board member for the first year until work left me too far away to dedicate the appropriate amount of time to the position. KnoxMakers itself is a 501c3 educational non-profit, formed with the purpose of furthering STEM education. We've fostered and enjoyed everything from blacksmithing to boat building and computer programming to electronic engineering.

Now at 28, I've survived multiple years and positions in the industry including an on again/off again affair with private contracting. Currently, I am employed full time as a DevOps Engineer in Oak Ridge National Lab's Information Technology Operations Center, as well as attending Pellissippi State full time in pursuit of my Bachelor's degree in Computer Science and Programming.
